h1. ElasticSearch BulkTag Plugin

h2. Perform Bulk Partial updates to indexed documents
This plugin will bulk-update every document in the index with the data it recieves.

h3. How do you build this plugin?

Start by specifying the elasticsearch version in the pom.xml.

<pre>
...
<elasticsearch.version>0.17.7</elasticsearch.version>
...
</pre>

Use maven to build the package

<pre>
mvn package
</pre>

Then install the plugin

<pre>
# if you've built it locally
$ES_HOME/bin/plugin -url ./target -install bulktag

# if you just want to install the pre-built package from github
$ES_HOME/bin/plugin install egaumer/bulktag
</pre>

h3. How to use this plugin.

Start by indexing some sample doucuments

<pre>
curl -XPOST http://localhost:9200/index/type1/1/ -d'{"name":"doc1"}'
curl -XPOST http://localhost:9200/index/type1/2/ -d'{"name":"doc2"}'
curl -XPOST http://localhost:9200/index/type1/3/ -d'{"name":"doc3"}'
</pre>

Use a search and verify things were indexed

<pre>
curl 'http://localhost:9200/index/type1/_search?q=*&pretty=true'
</pre>

To add a set of tags to each of these documents, POST to the new endpoint.

<pre>
curl -XPOST http://localhost:9200/_bulktag -d '{"tags":["red","blue","green"]}'
</pre>

Perform another search and verify the documents were all updated.

*Note*
This HTTP call is asynchornous meaning the call will start the update and immediately return. If you are updating a large number of documents, it could take several minutes (or longer) to actually complete. Yoi can watch the logs to track progress and look for failures.

